BUILDING.md, before:

# Building with CMake

## Build

This project doesn't require any special command-line flags to build to keep
things simple.

Here are the steps for building in release mode with a single-configuration
generator, like the Unix Makefiles one:

```sh
cmake -S . -B build -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build build
```

Here are the steps for building in release mode with a multi-configuration
generator, like the Visual Studio ones:

```sh
cmake -S . -B build
cmake --build build --config Release
```

But RPP is header-only library, so, without enabling any extra options is just compiles "nothing". So, you can use next options to enable/disable some parts of project:

- `RPP_BUILD_TESTS` - (ON/OFF) build unit tests (default OFF)
- `RPP_BUILD_EXAMPLES` - (ON/OFF) build examples of usage of RPP (default OFF)
- `RPP_BUILD_SFML_CODE` - (ON/OFF) build RPP code related to SFML or not (default OFF) - requires SFML to be installed


<!-- ### Building on Apple Silicon

CMake supports building on Apple Silicon properly since 3.20.1. Make sure you
have the [latest version][1] installed. -->

## Install

This project doesn't require any special command-line flags to install to keep
things simple. As a prerequisite, the project has to be built with the above
commands already.

The below commands require at least CMake 3.15 to run, because that is the
version in which [Install a Project][2] was added.

Here is the command for installing the release mode artifacts with a
single-configuration generator, like the Unix Makefiles one:

```sh
cmake --install build
```

Here is the command for installing the release mode artifacts with a
multi-configuration generator, like the Visual Studio ones:

```sh
cmake --install build --config Release
```

Optionally you can download it via FetchContent

```cmake
Include(FetchContent)

FetchContent_Declare(
    RPP
    GIT_REPOSITORY https://github.com/victimsnino/ReactivePlusPlus.git
    GIT_TAG        origin/main
)

FetchContent_MakeAvailable(RPP)
```

### CMake package

This project exports a CMake package to be used with the [`find_package`][3]
command of CMake:

* Package name: `RPP`
* Target name: `RPP::rpp`

Example usage:

```cmake
find_package(RPP REQUIRED)
# Declare the imported target as a build requirement using PRIVATE, where
# project_target is a target created in the consuming project
target_link_libraries(
    project_target PRIVATE
    RPP::rpp
)
```

[1]: https://cmake.org/download/
[2]: https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake.1.html#install-a-project
[3]: https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/find_package.html

Commit message:

Add possibility to enable full type-erasure library-wide

BUILDING.md, after:

# Building with CMake

## Build

This project doesn't require any special command-line flags to build to keep
things simple.

Here are the steps for building in release mode with a single-configuration
generator, like the Unix Makefiles one:

```sh
cmake -S . -B build -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build build
```

Here are the steps for building in release mode with a multi-configuration
generator, like the Visual Studio ones:

```sh
cmake -S . -B build
cmake --build build --config Release
```

But RPP is header-only library, so, without enabling any extra options is just compiles "nothing". So, you can use next options to enable/disable some parts of project:

- `RPP_BUILD_TESTS` - (ON/OFF) build unit tests (default OFF)
- `RPP_BUILD_EXAMPLES` - (ON/OFF) build examples of usage of RPP (default OFF)
- `RPP_BUILD_SFML_CODE` - (ON/OFF) build RPP code related to SFML or not (default OFF) - requires SFML to be installed
- `RPP_TYPE_ERASED_OBSERVABLE` - (ON/OFF) force observable to store any `on_subscribe` as `std::function`. As a result it reduces amount of uniq observables, speedups compilation and IDE loading time a lot, but has a major performance hit. Strongly recommended to avoid this option. Enable ONLY when it is not possible to use RPP as is (for example, system has limits over ROM/RAM/CPU). (default OFF)

<!-- ### Building on Apple Silicon

CMake supports building on Apple Silicon properly since 3.20.1. Make sure you
have the [latest version][1] installed. -->

## Install

This project doesn't require any special command-line flags to install to keep
things simple. As a prerequisite, the project has to be built with the above
commands already.

The below commands require at least CMake 3.15 to run, because that is the
version in which [Install a Project][2] was added.

Here is the command for installing the release mode artifacts with a
single-configuration generator, like the Unix Makefiles one:

```sh
cmake --install build
```

Here is the command for installing the release mode artifacts with a
multi-configuration generator, like the Visual Studio ones:

```sh
cmake --install build --config Release
```

Optionally you can download it via FetchContent

```cmake
Include(FetchContent)

FetchContent_Declare(
    RPP
    GIT_REPOSITORY https://github.com/victimsnino/ReactivePlusPlus.git
    GIT_TAG        origin/main
)

FetchContent_MakeAvailable(RPP)
```

### CMake package

This project exports a CMake package to be used with the [`find_package`][3]
command of CMake:

* Package name: `RPP`
* Target name: `RPP::rpp`

Example usage:

```cmake
find_package(RPP REQUIRED)
# Declare the imported target as a build requirement using PRIVATE, where
# project_target is a target created in the consuming project
target_link_libraries(
    project_target PRIVATE
    RPP::rpp
)
```

[1]: https://cmake.org/download/
[2]: https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake.1.html#install-a-project
[3]: https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/find_package.html
